---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-22T16:44:55.862Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-22T16:44:41.838Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-22-dd67e2b9-e773-4813-9f3c-f961efa34792.md
published: true
url: dd67e2b9-e773-4813-9f3c-f961efa34792/index.html
_type: Article

---
### As
corporate lifespans decline, cities are increasingly understood as 
being the primary long-term economic, social and cultural infrastructure
for managing growth and development. This recognition is driving a new 
and renewed interest in city governance; one which begins to appreciate 
corporates as mere pop-ups in the trajectory of the successful city, and
the fallacy of reliance on solely private sector, market-driven future.

This
future poses a key question --- can we fundamentally shift our models, 
theories and methods of organising and managing away from an obsession 
with control, market fixes and instrumentalisation? Can we design and 
develop meaningful alternatives focused on unleashing a democracy of 
mission, imbued with purpose and agency --- centred around around our 
humanity and empathy as opposed to extending Taylorist, Fordist 
tyrannies to our supposedly democratic cities.

The central 
challenge we face is reinventing city governance so that it evolves from
an industrialised, centrally controlled model towards one that 
recognises interdependence and the fundamental responsibility to the 
democratic agency of all citizens in making society. Civic 
infrastructure and welfare too must be re-imagined; focused not on 
optimising corporate balance sheets, nor addressing political social 
costs, nor even addressing long term social and environmental costs but 
on utilising the full democratic capacity of all citizens. This is a 
city of the future that places these citizens --- both present and 
future --- at the centre of its economic, social and cultural vision. We 
must unleash this city: now let's imagine this city.

This is city 
that has moved on from a system where behind the democracy of governance
hides the autocracy of the economy of industrial (virtual) chains of 
production. It is a city that is no longer managed according to data and
targets, no longer driven by need and fear, that is is focused not on 
the instrumentalisation of its 'work force' but instead chooses to view 
its human capital as its core asset to invest in.

This is a city 
which understands itself first and foremost as being the primary social 
and economic organisation unit: a meta-institutional platform for 
citizens, corporates and cooperatives; for work, rest and play --- a true 
agent of the public.

This is a city that recognises that in a 
world where free knowledge with a global reach is increasingly 
commodified, the unique quality of physical proximity can sow the seeds 
of empathy within a collaborative economy.

This is a city which 
recognizes that we are in the midst of a interaction revolution: moving 
beyond the Fordist model, where the city was a transactional engine (now
increasingly the role of the web) to one focused on tacit interactions 
and knowledge exchange, where complex decision-making is no longer 
clouded by ambiguity, where there is no rule book to follow.

This 
is a city which understands the role of design as being an architect of 
conditions that seed the culture and hardwire the capacity of the city 
to serve as an 'empathy engine'. It is a city that requires us to 
reinvent our old world economics and re-conceptualise our globalization,
creating one that is instead comfortable to operate in a boundless 
world shaped by interdependency rather than boundaries.

This is a 
city that seeks us to unleash, not undermine, the extraordinary humanity
of the 99% in the face of the sociopathy of the 1%. It is a free city 
liberated by our technology, not further tyrannised and instrumentalised
by it and those that wield its power. This is a city where freedom does
not mean dreaming of isolation within a rural idle but instead means 
empathy, respectful interdependency and the unleashing of our collective
personal agency.

It is our 
responsibility as seekers, designers, developers and financiers of the 
future city, to collectively empower and emboldened the dreamers and 
darers whilst shunning the fear-makers. This is a city that demands we 
search for our place in the stars --- and do not just struggle to sustain 
our place in the dirt: this city is the launchpad for a remarkable, 21st
Century civilisation.